basic/README.md, before:

# node-basic

🚀 Basic starter code for a scalable, production-ready GraphQL server for Node.js.

![](https://imgur.com/LG6r1q1.png)

## Features

- **Scalable GraphQL Server:** `graphql-yoga` based on Apollo Server & Express
- **GraphQL-native database:** Includes GraphQL database binding to Graphcool (running on MySQL)
- Out-of-the-box support for [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground) & [Tracing](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-tracing)
- Simple data model – easy to adjust
- Preconfigured [`graphql-config`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-config) setup

## Requirements

You need to have the following things installed: Node 8 (or higher) and the [GraphQL CLI](https://github.com/graphql-cli/graphql-cli) (via `npm i -g graphql-cli`)

## Getting started

```sh
# Bootstrap GraphQL server in directory `my-app`, based on `node-basic` boilerplate
graphql create my-app --boilerplate node-basic

# Navigate to the new project
cd my-app

# Deploy the Graphcool database
yarn graphcool deploy

# Start server (runs on http://localhost:4000)
yarn start

# Open Playground to explore GraphQL API
yarn playground
```

<details>

<summary>Alternative: Clone repo</summary>

```sh
# Clone the repo and navigate into project directory
git clone https://github.com/graphql-boilerplates/node-graphql-server.git
cd node-graphql-server/basic

# Deploy the Graphcool database
graphcool deploy

# Install node dependencies
yarn install

# Start server (runs on http://localhost:4000)
yarn start

# Open Playground to explore GraphQL API
yarn playground
```

</details>

## Docs

### Commands

* `yarn start` starts GraphQL server
* `yarn playground` opens the GraphQL Playground
* `yarn deploy` deploys GraphQL server to [`now`](https://now.sh)

### Project structure

#### `/` - configuration files

- [`.graphqlconfig.yml`](.graphqlconfig.yml) GraphQL configuration file containing the endpoints and schema configuration. Used by the [`graphql-cli`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-cli) and the [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground). See [`graphql-config`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-config) for more information.


#### `/database` - datamodel

- [`database/graphcool.yml`](database/graphcool.yml) The configuration file for your database service ([documentation](https://www.graph.cool/docs/1.0/reference/graphcool.yml/overview-and-example-foatho8aip)).
- [`database/datamodel.graphql`](database/datamodel.graphql) contains the data model that you define for your database service (written in [SDL](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-sdl-schema-definition-language-6755bcb9ce51)).

#### `/src` - application server

- [`src/schema.graphql`](src/schema.graphql) defines your **application schema**. It contains the GraphQL API that you want to expose to your client applications.
- [`src/index.js`](src/index.js) is the entry point of your server, putting everything together and starting the `GraphQLServer` from [`graphql-yoga`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-yoga).

#### `/src/generated` - generated files

- [`src/generated/graphcool.graphql`](src/generated/graphcool.graphql) defines your **database schema**. It contains the GraphQL API exposed by the Graphcool Database. This file is automatically generated every time `graphcool deploy` is executed, according to the datamodel in `database/datamodel.graphql`.

## Contributing

Your feedback is **very helpful**, please share your opinion and thoughts! If you have any questions, join the [`#graphql-boilerplate`](https://graphcool.slack.com/messages/graphql-boilerplate) channel on our [Slack](https://graphcool.slack.com/).

Commit message:

chore(basic,advanced): adjust READMEs

basic/README.md, after:

# node-basic

🚀 Basic starter code for a scalable, production-ready GraphQL server for Node.js.

![](https://imgur.com/LG6r1q1.png)

## Features

- **Scalable GraphQL Server:** `graphql-yoga` based on Apollo Server & Express
- **GraphQL-native database:** Includes GraphQL database binding to Graphcool (running on MySQL)
- Out-of-the-box support for [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground) & [Tracing](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-tracing)
- Simple data model – easy to adjust
- Preconfigured [`graphql-config`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-config) setup

## Requirements

You need to have the following things installed: Node 8 (or higher) and the [GraphQL CLI](https://github.com/graphql-cli/graphql-cli) (via `npm i -g graphql-cli`)

## Getting started

```sh
# Bootstrap GraphQL server in directory `my-app`, based on `node-basic` boilerplate
graphql create my-app --boilerplate node-basic

# choose the Graphcool cluster you want to deploy to

# Navigate to the new project
cd my-app

# Start server (runs on http://localhost:4000)
yarn start

# Open Playground to explore GraphQL API
yarn playground
```

## Docs

### Commands

* `yarn start` starts GraphQL server
* `yarn debug` starts GraphQL server in debug mode (open [chrome://inspect/#devices](chrome://inspect/#devices) to debug)
* `yarn playground` opens the GraphQL Playground
* `yarn graphcool` access to local version of `graphcool` CLI

### Project structure

#### `/` - configuration files

- [`.graphqlconfig.yml`](.graphqlconfig.yml) GraphQL configuration file containing the endpoints and schema configuration. Used by the [`graphql-cli`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-cli) and the [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-playground). See [`graphql-config`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-config) for more information.


#### `/database` - datamodel

- [`database/graphcool.yml`](database/graphcool.yml) The configuration file for your database service ([documentation](https://www.graph.cool/docs/1.0/reference/graphcool.yml/overview-and-example-foatho8aip)).
- [`database/datamodel.graphql`](database/datamodel.graphql) contains the data model that you define for your database service (written in [SDL](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-sdl-schema-definition-language-6755bcb9ce51)).

#### `/src` - application server

- [`src/schema.graphql`](src/schema.graphql) defines your **application schema**. It contains the GraphQL API that you want to expose to your client applications.
- [`src/index.js`](src/index.js) is the entry point of your server, putting everything together and starting the `GraphQLServer` from [`graphql-yoga`](https://github.com/graphcool/graphql-yoga).

#### `/src/generated` - generated files

- [`src/generated/graphcool.graphql`](src/generated/graphcool.graphql) defines the **database schema**. It contains the GraphQL API exposed by the Graphcool Database. This file is automatically generated every time `yarn graphcool deploy` is executed, according to the datamodel in `database/datamodel.graphql`.

## Contributing

Your feedback is **very helpful**, please share your opinion and thoughts! If you have any questions, join the [`#graphql-boilerplate`](https://graphcool.slack.com/messages/graphql-boilerplate) channel on our [Slack](https://graphcool.slack.com/).
